# CSU WasteWater DataSplice

## Back Story

CSU is responsible for maintaining the wastewater pipes across Colorado Springs. Wastewater pipes have a manhole at each end and are sloped. The wastewater pipes must be inspected and cleaned on a regular basis. Wastewater pipes are cleaned "uphill" meaning the manhole at the bottom of the slope is the entry point and the manhole at the top is the exit point for a given section of pipe.

The city of Colorado Springs is divided into geographical areas known as basins. Each basin contains several manholes and sections of pipe. A section of pipe is considered to be within a basin if its entry manhole lies within the basin (even if the exit manhole crosses a border into another basin.)

1. S4 System
The S4 system is an external GIS application which is used to create PM work orders in Maximo.

1. Planner
The Planner is responsible for scheduling and assigning Crew Leads to PM Work Orders.

1. __Crew Lead (the only DS user)__
The Crew Lead is the only DataSplice user. Crew Leads work with a crew and a truck to clean out the pipes in a given basin. Crew Leads may create a grandchild work order in the field and assign it to a Supervisor.

1. Supervisor
Followup (grandchild) work orders are created in the field by Crew Leads and assigned to Supervisors at creation time (prior to syncing back to Maximo). Supervisors then manage the followup work orders and all work associated with them in Maximo.

## Current Process

> [Click here for the process workflow diagram](https://www.lucidchart.com/documents/view/40919d87-68b6-461e-8a5b-bd129536cfea)

### Work Type: PM

1. Are created in Maximo by the external S4 system
1. Consist of a single parent and around 10-200 child work orders
1. Map 1:1 with a basin; children map 1:1 to each segment of pipe within the basin
1. Contain around 10 to 200 child work orders
1. Are assigned to a Crew Lead; children remain unassigned
1. May take a few days to a couple of weeks to complete; several children may be completed in a day
1. Are where all labor is recorded (no labor for children, they're just "checked" as complete when they transition from status NEW -> COMP)

### Work Type: EM-investigate

1. Created by the Crew Lead in the field
1. Represent a need for additional work by a different crew
1.
