# CSU WasteWater DataSplice

## Back Story

CSU is responsible for maintaining the wastewater pipes across Colorado Springs. Wastwater pipes have a manhole at each end and are sloped. The wastewater pipes must be inspected and cleaned on a regular basis. Wastewater pipes are cleaned "uphill" meaning the manhole at the bottom of the slope is the entry point and the manhole at the top is the exit point for a given section of pipe.

The city of Colorado Springs is divided into geographical areas known as basins. Each basin contains several manholes and sections of pipe. A section of pipe is considered to be within a basin if its entry manhole lies within the basin (even if the exit manhole crosses a border into another basin.)

__S4 System__
The S4 system is an Oracle application which is used to create PM work orders in Maximo.

__Planner__
The Planner is responsible for assigning Crew Leads to PM Work Orders.

__Crew Lead__
The Crew Lead works with one colleague and a truck to clean out the pipes in a given basin.

## Current Process

Wastewater work orders are a combination of:

- PM: Preventative Maintenance
- CM: Corrective Maintenance
- EM: Emergency Maintenance

### PM Work Orders

- Are created in Maximo by the Oracle S4 system
- Consist of a single parent and around 10-200 child work orders
- Parent maps 1:1 with a basin
- Child maps to each segment of pipe within the basin
- There may be around 10 to 200 child work orders for a single parent
- Parent is assigned to a Crew Lead
- Children remain unassigned
- Parent May take a few days to a couple of weeks to complete
- Several children may be completed in a day
- All labor is against the parent work order
- No labor for children. They're just "checked" as complete

### CM Work Orders

- Created by the Crew Lead in the field
- Represent a need for additional work by a different crew
-
