# CSU WasteWater DataSplice

## Back Story

CSU is responsible for maintaining the wastewater pipes across Colorado Springs. Wastewater pipes have a manhole at each end and are sloped. The wastewater pipes must be inspected and cleaned on a regular basis. Wastewater pipes are cleaned "uphill" meaning the manhole at the bottom of the slope is the entry point and the manhole at the top is the exit point for a given section of pipe.

The city of Colorado Springs is divided into geographical areas known as basins. Each basin contains several manholes and sections of pipe. A section of pipe is considered to be within a basin if its entry manhole lies within the basin (even if the exit manhole crosses a border into another basin.)

1. S4 System
The S4 system is an external GIS application which is used to create PM work orders in Maximo.

1. Planner
The Planner is responsible for scheduling and assigning Crew Leads to PM Work Orders.

1. __Crew Lead (the only DS user)__
The Crew Lead is the only DataSplice user. Crew Leads work with a crew and a truck to clean out the pipes in a given basin. Crew Leads may create a grandchild work order in the field and assign it to a Supervisor.

1. Supervisor
Followup (grandchild) work orders created in the field by Crew Leads are assigned to Supervisors. Supervisors manage the followup work orders in Maximo.

## Current Process

> [Click here for the process workflow diagram](https://www.lucidchart.com/documents/view/40919d87-68b6-461e-8a5b-bd129536cfea)



Wastewater work orders are a combination of:

Preventative Maintenance (PM) | Corrective Maintenance (CM) |Emergency Maintenance (EM)
-|-|-
Created and assigned by the planner for the purpose of cleaning wastewater pipes. | Created in the field by the crew lead for the planner to assign to another team |  Crew lead makes a call to the planner who then dispatches a team immediately and records the work order after the fact using Maximo.

### PM Work Orders

1. Are created in Maximo by the external S4 system
1. Consist of a single parent and around 10-200 child work orders
1. Parent maps 1:1 with a basin; children map 1:1 to each segment of pipe within the basin
1. There may be around 10 to 200 child work orders for a single parent
1. Parent is assigned to a Crew Lead; children remain unassigned
1. Parent may take a few days to a couple of weeks to complete; several children may be completed in a day
1. All labor is against the parent work order; no labor for children, they're just "checked" as complete

### CM Work Orders

1. Created by the Crew Lead in the field
1. Represent a need for additional work by a different crew
1.
